# PatientDemo

## 100000 Patient Data Involving The Use of ICD-10 Code

#### Intro
The purpose of this data analysis report is to go over insights on ICD-10 codes and its relation with patients demographic. The data collected was from a online source which had 100000 patients records and contain information on patients demographics and metrics. ICD-10 codes are used in hospital primarily used to classify and codes for all diagnosis, symptoms, and procedures in which are then used for billing purposes to insurance. Overall the data had some insight when it comes to admission rates based on age and ICD-10 codes based on numerous patient demographic information. The report will go over more in depth with the metadata, the transformation and analysis performed on the data as well.

#### Data
The data collected had a total of 100000 distinct data patients overall which was used for the analysis. There were a total of 4 tables which were: admissioncorepop, admissiondiagnosiscorepop, lab, and patientdemo. Admissioncorepop is the table that contains the patientID , the number of admissions, and the admission duration. This table was primarily used for getting the number of visit for each patient to understand later what demographical information correlate with number of visits. Admissiondiagnosiscorepop is the primary table in which the ICD-10 codes and their descriptions are stored. This table was used with other tables to figure out most frequent code used based on certain demographical information. The third table lab was not used for this analysis due to time constraints but it contains information on what labs were performed on patients and the metric values used as well. The final table patientdemo contains patients demographic information such as gender, date of birth , and more. This dataset is private and does not contain anyway to link back to an individual such that cause any privacy concern.

#### Method/Analysis
Throughout the analysis, basic statistical tools and SQL methods were used to alter and find insight with the data. Statistical tools such as finding the sum, max value, averages, and more were used across the data set to find underlying information and as well as finding correlations. SQL was used to bring tables together and do alteration to help with the analysis such as binning ages and grouping information together based on certain conditions. After transforming the data we learn more about the patients demographics and ICD-10 codes correlation. One of the first thing that was found was that as age increases the average number of admission to the hospital increases overall no matter the ethnicity. Ages 19-36 on average would be admitted to the hospital on average of 1.18 time while on the latter half, 81+ patients go on average 2.9 times. Additionally, I learn that our patients data have predominantly more White patients information compare to other races. about 50% of the data is made up of White patients, while the other 50% is made up of Asian, African American, and Miscellanous. Furthermore, the patients gender are equally the same in which half are male and the other half is female. This information is based the patients biological sex rather than their gender identity. When looking at the most common ICD-10 codes used overall, the top 10 codes used were used between 171- 183 times overall. The most used code was C47.12 which the description for the code is “Malignant neoplasm of peripheral nerves of left upper limb”. If we look deeper into ICD-10 codes we can see which are most used based on race, gender, and age range as well. For age range, C47.12 is actually the most used only within the age of 37-60. In other words, C47.12 is not the top code used in other age ranges aside from the age range from 37-60. Furthermore C47.12 is also not the most used code for males but rather for females only. For males the most used code is I08 which is ‘Multiple Valve Disease’. Additionally, C47.12 is mostly found within the white race while other races C47.12 is actually not even the top 10 code used.

#### Things to work on
Looking back at this analysis, there are certain things I could work on to make the analysis more robust. First thing when looking back is to normalize the dataset in which I would get a random sample amount that are equivalent for all age ranges. I noticed that most data points came from the age range between 37-60 while their were less points at ages 19-36 and 81+. Having subsample where each age range is equivalent in data will help with data bias and any data skewness based on amount of data. Furthermore, this can help make the analysis more accurate in terms of the information found based on this age range. Another thing I can work on during my analysis such as patients age ranges and ethnicity where the data is heavily leaned towards a certain age range and race, I could of done percentiles of which a certain diagnosis code is made up of based on patients demographic in which can help understand the distribution of the ICD code. Additionally, I could of done a more deeper statistical analysis using other statistical tools and also including the lab dataset which can help find more deeper insight within the data.

#### Conclusion
While there is areas that can be worked on, overall there is key information found that can help hospital understand what are patients are coded for most commonly. This can help both in terms of resources allocation to help with these diagnosis and also for billing purposes for insurance where coders would premptivily be ready for common codes that can appear for billing. In addition to the current data analysis, there is still more that can be looked such as lab reports to help figure more out about how codes are handled based on what labs are being performed. Overall, this can help doctors and coders help understand what can be expected often at their hospital.


Tableau Link : https://public.tableau.com/views/PatientStoryICD-10USAGE/PatientStory?:language=en-US&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link



DatasetLink: https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/EMRBots_a_100_000-patient_database/7040198
